# Incident: 2025-04-08 20-00-00

All times are UTC.

## Summary

On April 7, 2025, between 18:40 and 18:50 UTC, users encountered server errors when ordering JWTs. The event was caused by the pizza factory service calls starting at 18:44.

The pizza factory service started returning status codes 500 on all pizza creations. The problem was detected by Grafana IRM. The first steps the team took to resolve the event were consulting the error logs returned. This mid severity incident affected most users over a span of 4 to 5 minutes.

No further impact was noted as the incident was resolved in a timely manner.

## Detection

The event was dected when a default alert was triggered and David Higueros was contacted a minute and a half after the incident's start. They acknowledged the event a minute later.

Decreasing Grafana IRM's alarm trigger delay would improve the time the alarm needs to notify the team.

## Impact

For 5 minutes between 18:44 and 18:49 on April 7, 2025, JWT pizza users could not complete JWT orders during the incident.

A total of 66 error logs we caputred by Grafana Dashboards in the span of those 5 minutes. A total of 18 pizza purchases failed during the incident, which is 100% of pizzas ordered in that timeframe.

## Timeline

- _18:44_ - JWT Pizza Service reports first recorded factory failure.
- _18:46_ - Grafana IRM notifies JWT Pizza Dev Team.
- _18:47_ - Dev Team starts investigating failures of Pizza creations.
- _18:48_ - Dev Team finds Pizza Factory at source of 500 status codes.
- _18:48_ - Dev Team contacts the Pizza Service via the reporting URL provided.
- _18:49_ - Last reported incident.
- _18:50_ - Dev Team reports Pizza Factory is stable and customer impact resolved.

## Response

After being paged at 18:46 UTC, David Higueros, who was the engineer on call, acknowledged the incident at 18:47 on Grafana IRM. No further engineers were paged.

## Root cause

An error in the JWT Pizza Factory creation process led to failure in production of the product, combined with a lack of server retrying the purchase.

## Resolution

By contacting the JWT Pizza Factory service through their provided reporting URL

## Prevention

This root cause is the first of its kind and has had no precedent.

## Action items

1. Create backup Pizza Factory service or more to fall back on in case of failure.
2. Server retry pizza purchases so less Pizza purchases fail outright.
3. Automate call to Pizza Factory reporting URL when errors start.
